Welcome to this special news update
regarding our brothers in Venezuela.
As reported in the JW News section
of jw.org in August 2017,
our brothers in Venezuela
are enduring difficult economic conditions.
Sadly, the overall situation continues to worsen.
Basic needs, like food and medicine,
are hard to obtain.
Violence and crime is on the increase.
Things are chaotic.
Because we love our worldwide brotherhood,
this difficult situation affects all of us.
As Paul said at 1 Corinthians 12:26:
“If one member suffers,
“all the other members suffer with it;
“or if a member is glorified,
all the other members rejoice with it.”
No doubt you pray regularly
for our brothers in Venezuela.
Despite these difficult times,
how are our brothers doing spiritually?
We’re sure you’ll find the following report
to be sobering and encouraging.
Notice how,
despite these difficult times,
our brothers in Venezuela
are showing love and faith.
May this report
motivate all of us to continue having
“unity of mind, fellow feeling,
brotherly affection, [and] tender compassion,”
as 1 Peter 3:8 says.
It’s amazing to see
how far the situation has gone,
and we are still at it.
So people in general have a lot of endurance,
and the brothers
—they endure.
They’re still cheerful.
They have to trust one another;
they have to rely on one another.
We gathered some statistics two months ago,
and we found out that in only three years,
7,000 publishers
—among them many elders, many pioneers—
have left the country because of the dangers.
They have felt threatened;
some had been kidnapped,
let go, and then they left the country;
family members have been killed, and so on.
So one of the things we had to do
with the local congregations
—which most of them
have quite a few Bethelite elders—
is move their meeting time on the weekdays
to an earlier hour so that the brothers
can go to the meeting with daylight,
and sometimes they can go home
after the meeting with some daylight.
If you go to some congregations
that are well-to-do
(I’ve been to the place),
you don’t see anyone at the meeting
with their cell phones or tablets.
And I said, “Why is that?”
Well, it’s not because they are afraid to lose it,
but they just don’t want
to attract criminals into the Kingdom Hall.
And so for one tablet, all might suffer.
So you see,
they’re learning to be streetwise even more,
because in Venezuela,
you had to be streetwise
for a long time in the past,
but now it’s getting worse.
But the brotherhood in general don’t complain.
At least in my congregation,
you have to ask
and you have to show real interest
so that the brothers and sisters
can tell you what they’re going through.
I knocked on the door,
and the door opened just a little crack.
And the young man, when he saw me,
opened the door wide, and we talked.
I asked him,
“Have you ever read the Bible?”
He said,
“Oh, when I was in prison, I read it a lot.”
He probably said that to see my reaction.
Well, we just kept talking and talking.
Behind him was another young man;
he had a pistol in his hand.
I saw that, and I didn’t react.
He put the gun in his pocket,
and we kept talking for about 15-20 minutes.
When we went away,
the brother that was with me was quite upset.
He said, “Do you know who that was?”
I said, “No.”
“That was one of the gang leaders.
He has killed a lot of people.”
I said: “Well, what I noticed
is that he’s a human being just like the rest.
He needs the message.”
We have noticed, too, in the last few years,
an increase not only in publishers
but pioneers.
And who are starting to pioneer?
Well, as usual, mostly sisters, but many brothers,
many elders.
They may have had a good job;
they lost their job because the company
closed down and left the country.
So many brothers have mentioned to me:
“Well, I lost my job; I have no job.
Now I can pioneer.”
So they start pioneering.
And I think that’s very good,
and it helps them to keep going.
I’m sure the brothers
are happy to see that everybody cares
—everybody in the brotherhood worldwide.
The Governing Body is informed
and is doing all they physically can to help us
with their prayers.
So when you feel
part of the worldwide brotherhood
—then you are not alone—
that has a calming effect on you.
Your confidence, or faith,
in Jehovah’s organization
as a physical, visible organization, grows.
So we know we’re part
of something bigger than just a country.
But this is putting to the test
how strong we will have faith in Bible principles.
We think they work,
but when they’re put to the test,
then you’re convinced that they work.
And then I’m convinced
that I will come out of this stronger.
That’s what James said
—that endurance
needs to go to work in each one of us.
So if you view it that way,
then that gives you hope
that this sad and hard and difficult time
will make us better.
Nehemiah 8:10 says:
“Do not feel sad,
for the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.”
So where is our strength?
In “the joy of Jehovah.”
I think we should always be positive,
not negative
—not concentrate on the negative.
Like I quoted before, Nehemiah 8:10,
“the joy of Jehovah”
—that’s what we see among the brothers.
The numbers came down
because of the 7,000 that have left,
but the congregations keep reporting.
And the circuit overseers,
in their reports, keep showing us
that new people
are still coming into the truth
—many new ones.
So that’s positive.
They’re not paralyzed because of that.
They keep focused on the Kingdom,
Jesus the King,
and they keep going in that direction.
Anytime anyone looks
to the side and looks at the storm,
he stops in his tracks;
he starts missing meetings;
he starts thinking about his wallet
—his money, his bank account.
So that is not good.
Keep focused on the Kingdom.
We’re proud of you brothers in Venezuela
for keeping focused on spiritual things
and maintaining a positive spirit
during these difficult times.
The reports show
that of the 140,000 publishers in Venezuela,
over 30,000 are regular pioneers
and 9,000 are auxiliary pioneers.
On average, publishers spend 15 hours
in the ministry each month.
They’re conducting
close to 200,000 Bible studies.
To illustrate the spirit
of our brothers in Venezuela,
note these two comments from circuit overseers:
“Our brothers live in an area
of extreme poverty and insecurity.
“Meeting attendance is excellent,
“although most of our brothers
live far from the Kingdom Hall
“and have to walk for more than an hour.
The regularity in service is 100 percent.”
Another circuit overseer reported:
“Fifty percent of the publishers
are regular pioneers.
“There are only two elders,
but they are hardworking,
“humble, well-organized,
and a good example
in the preaching and shepherding work.”
We’re encouraged by the love and faith
that you brothers in Venezuela show.
Please know that we love you all very much.
We’re going to hear
more about our brothers in Venezuela
in another special report that will be released
on Video on Demand on November 12, 2018.
The video is entitled
Surviving Trials in Venezuela.
It’s an interview
with a couple from Venezuela
who recently attended
the 144th class of Gilead.
This is JW Broadcasting
from the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.